README.md, before:

# getting-started


<img align="right" src="https://avatars2.githubusercontent.com/u/8144157?s=200&v=4">

### In this repo, we explain how to get started with Open Source contributions and be a part of the Software Underground!

For more in depth documentation, here are some git and github tutorials:

---

[Github Guides](https://guides.github.com/activities/hello-world/) - [From VSCode](https://github.blog/2019-01-07-create-pull-requests-in-vscode/)

---

###
Let's put a version control demo into action!:
1) fork this repository
  (insert pic pointing to fork, say username should look like name/getting-started)

2) clone fork to local machine
  (insert pic pointing to clone or download, if you have a code editing software copy https and clone in code editor's environment)

3) Edit this README document, sign your name at the bottom!
  (pic of where to click for edit and where to put your name)
  
4) Commit your change  
    + From a git-aware terminal:
      + Create a branch on the local ('downstream') side.  
        ```checkout -b <my-branch-name>```  
      + Track changes for the read-me page  
        ```git add README.md```  
      + Commit your changes to the page  
        ```git commit```  
      + Create a useful commit message. First line is title (<54 chars), rest is body (<79 chars / line).  
        ```EDITOR=nano git commit --amend```
      + Send your changes upstream  
        ```git push --set-upstream origin <my-branch-name>```  
    + On GitHub:
      + Refresh browser
      + Select your branch
      + Submit a pull request with a helpful commit message (<79 chars per line)  
  (pic of where to click for each of these)

Yay you're done!

If you want, drop a line to the community--we're here to encourage!
[Software Underground Community Link](https://softwareunderground.org/slack)

---


Add your name here, and check out after, you are now part of the [contributors](https://github.com/softwareunderground/getting-started/graphs/contributors).

---

Chance Sanger | Jesper Dramsch | Will Sanger

Commit message:

Clean up commit step-by-step in README.md
Step 4 had some duplication and was most natural to
break back into into two steps. Also, the guide
needs information for either CLI or GUI users.

This removes duplication, simplifies wording, and
adds stubs where we can later give instructions
for GUI users.

README.md, after:

# getting-started


<img align="right" src="https://avatars2.githubusercontent.com/u/8144157?s=200&v=4">

### In this repo, we explain how to get started with Open Source contributions and be a part of the Software Underground!

For more in depth documentation, here are some git and github tutorials:

---

[Github Guides](https://guides.github.com/activities/hello-world/) - [From VSCode](https://github.blog/2019-01-07-create-pull-requests-in-vscode/)

---

###
Let's put a version control demo into action!:
1) fork this repository  
  (insert pic pointing to fork, say username should look like name/getting-started)

2) clone your fork to local machine
  + Option 1: From terminal with [git](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-Installing-Git) installed:    
    ```git clone https://github.com/softwareunderground/getting-started```
  + Option 2: From code editor such as [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/)  
  (insert pic pointing to clone or download, if you have a code editing software copy https and clone in code editor's environment)

3) edit this README document, sign your name at the bottom!  
  (pic of where to click for edit and where to put your name)
  
4) commit the change to your fork
    + Option 1: From a git-aware terminal:
      + Checkout a new branch where you can track your changes  
        ```checkout -b <my-branch-name>```  
      + Add the file you want to track    
        ```git add README.md```  
      + Commit your changes to the page. Include a useful commit message. First line is title (<54 chars), rest is body (<79 chars / line)  
        ```EDITOR=nano git commit```  
      + Push your changes upstream   
        ```git push --set-upstream origin <my-branch-name>```  
    + Option 2: From a code editor:  
      (to be added)

5) submit your pull request  
  (pic of where to click for each of these)

You're done!

If you want, drop a line to the community--we're here to encourage!
[Software Underground Community Link](https://softwareunderground.org/slack)

---

Add your name here, and check out after, you are now part of the [contributors](https://github.com/softwareunderground/getting-started/graphs/contributors).

---

Chance Sanger | Jesper Dramsch | Will Sanger
